Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on introduction to trees.
So this lecture will be going over what the section is about and then we'll get a brief introduction
to the data structure that is called the tree.
So in this section the trees section we learn about tree data structures.
We're going to implement trees of Felis And we're also going to implement trees using object oriented
programming so classes and then we're also going to implement a priority queue data structure and then
we're going to have some interview problems.
There's going to be a lot going on in this section but what I want you to know is the section only covers
basics of trees and what's known as an abstract data type or ADT.
This topic in general is pretty vast and it could easily warrant its own course.
So just keep this in mind.
But throughout the lectures you'll get additional resources to check out in case you want to dive deeper
into trees.
So let's just talk about trees in general.
The tree data structure has a root branches and leaves.
So just like a tree in nature you have a similar structure.
The difference between a tree in nature and a tree computer science though is that a tree data structure
has its root at the top and its leaves at the bottom so it branches downwards.
So you've maybe I've already seen these kind of tree data structures.
So let's just look at a few common examples here we can see a tree as a classification tree from biology
.
So we have biological classification of some animals so a pretty simple example where we can learn about
the properties of trees so this example demonstrates that trees have a hierarchy and their structure
and layers where more general things are near the top and more specific things are near the bottom.
So here we have a hierarchy that's the kingdom the phylum the class etc..
So no matter how deep we go into the classification tree we get all the organisms are still animals
.
So that's important to note here.
Another second property of trees is that all the children of one node are in the pen of the children
of another node and a third property is that each Leafnode is unique.
And we'll go more into what nodes are and what Leif's are what children are in the vocabulary section
of this lecture.
So another example of a tree structure that you probably use every day is a file system.
So in a file system directories or folders or structures tree.
So here we can see an example of this where you basically have just a small part of the UNIX file system
as a hierarchy and just like that biological classification tree you can follow a path from the root
to any directory and that path will uniquely identify that subdirectory.
So all the files in it and another important property of trees also derived from that hierarchy is that
you can move entire sections of a tree called subtrees So there's a tree here to a different position
in the tree without affecting the lower levels of the hierarchy.
So for example in this particular picture you could take the entire SO tree starting with etc..
This ATC slash and you could reattach it to under user here.
Usar in importance to know that it's not going to affect any of the children that are at the same level
of this tree.
OK so one final example is a web page so if you're familiar with HVM l it also has a similar structure
where the tree that corresponds to the email tags you can use that to create it page.
OK.
So I've mentioned some terms such as nodes children parents Well we're going to do now is go over some
common vocabulary terms they should know when discussing trees.
So a note is a fundamental part of a tree.
It can have a name and you can also call that the key.
So a node may also have additional information and you can call that additional information the payload
.
So while the payload information isn't actually central to a lot of the tree algorithms we're going
to be learning about.
It's often critical in applications that make use of trees.
Next term we're going to learn about is edge so an edge.
Again another fundamental part of a tree.
It's an edge connects to nodes that show that there is a relationship between them and then every node
except for that root node is connected by exactly one incoming edge from another node and each node
may have several outgoing edges.
Sort of show you what I mean by this we're going to learn about one more the roots.
So the root of the tree is the only node in the tree that has no in-coming edges.
So here we have kind of an illustration of a tree.
It looks a little different.
The children of the notes are linked and attached to it.
But that's just to show the higher IQ levels.
So here we can see whoops here we can see there is a root node for you.
We have two children and each child has only one edge coming out of it and it goes to the next level
of notes and notice that the root node is the only note here that has no incoming edges.
And then we can see children and then other nodes.
So a path is an ordered list of notes that are connected by edges.
So if you look for example back to the biology tree that we're looking at mammal to carnivores to other
.
PHILLIP DE Felice is a path there.
So as you continue on and have an ordered list of those that are connected by edges you have a path
and then children formally are a set of nodes.
We'll call them see here the have in-coming edges from the same Node 2 and are said to be the children
of that node.
So for example we can see here that the root node has two children and then each of those trials goes
to another node.
No one has three children no two only has one child and then we have parents.
So a node is the parent of all the notes it connects to with outgoing edges.
So here you can see that child one is the parents of node one
sibling nodes in a tree are the children of the same parent are said to be siblings.
So here child one child two and child three are all siblings of note one
and then a tree is a set of nodes and edges comprised of the parent and all the descendants of that
parent.
So you could loop around some subtrees here versus the entire tree.
And then lastly a leaf node is a no that has no children.
So no.
3 4 5 and 6 don't have any children.
So there leaf nodes just like the leaf on a tree that doesn't have a branch extending out of it.
Now we're going to learn about is levels not particular nodes.
So the level of a node n is the number of edges on the path from the root node to end.
So for looking at No 2 here or Node 1 they are both at level 1 since it only takes one path to get back
to the root node
and then the height of a tree is equal to the maximum level of any node tree.
So he described all the parts of a tree.
And now we're going to bring them together to form a full formal definition and something to note here
is the image I've been showing you about a root node if a tree goes along with this particular definition
.
So a tree consists of a set of nodes and a set of edges that connect pairs of nodes.
So a tree has the following properties.
One note of the tree is designated as the root node.
So that was that top note in the picture which if you go to the next slide here it is.
So every note n except the root node is connected by an edge from exactly one other note P where P is
the parent of and a unique path traverses from the root node to each node and if each node in the tree
has a maximum of two children we say that that tree is a binary tree.
And we'll learn a more specifically about binary trees and binary search trees.
Later on this section of the course.
So this figure illustrates that definition of the tree.
The arrow heads on the edges in the direction of the connection.
There's also a recursive definition of a tree.
So you could say a tree is either empty or consists of a root and 0 or more so trees each of which is
also a tree.
So the root of each subtree is connected to the root of the parent tree by an edge.
So you should see what I mean by that.
Here's kind of a simpler figure.
And this is the recursive definition.
So you have roots and then you have subtrees.
And as I mention a trees are empty or consists of a root and zero or more so trees.
So if you remember back to the recursions section of the course I mentioned that recursion can be used
to define trees and the fine tree traversal algorithms.
So it's important to also understand this particular definition.
So here we know that in this figure the tree has at least four nodes since each of these triangles represents
you know subtree must have a root.
So you have the root node and then three so trees and we know each of these three so trees also has
a root since we're dealing with the recursive definition right now.
So we know we have at least four nodes it may have many more notes than that but we don't know until
we look deeper into the tree which basically means making another recursive call.
OK.
So let's just go over a review of everything we learned.
We got a brief overview of what to expect for this section of the course.
We went over some of the basics of trees and real life examples.
We also learned about vocabulary for trees and definitions for trees.
And now we're ready to learn more about trees and learn about them to prepare for interview problems
.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture